documentation/src/cli.md, before:

# CLI

The Forest CLI allows for operations to interact with a Filecoin node and the
blockchain.

## Environment Variables

For nodes not running on a non-default port, or when interacting with a node
remotely, you will need to provide the multiaddress information for the node.
You will need to either set the environment variable `FULLNODE_API_INFO`, or
prepend it to the command, like so:

`FULLNODE_API_INFO="..." forest wallet new -s bls`

On Linux, you can set the environment variable with the following syntax

`export FULLNODE_API_INFO="..."`

Setting your API info this way will limit the value to your current session.
Look online for ways to persist this variable if desired.

The syntax for the `FULLNODE_API_INFO` variable is as follows:

`<admin_token>:/ip4/<ip of host>/tcp/<port>/http`

This will use IPv4, TCP, and HTTP when communicating with the RPC API. The admin
token can be found when starting the Forest daemon. This will be needed to
create tokens with certain permissions such as read, write, sign, or admin.

## Token flag

For nodes running on default port and when you are interacting locally, the
admin token can also be set using `--token` flag:

```
forest-cli --token eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJBbGxvdyI6WyJyZWFkIiwid3JpdGUiLCJzaWduIiwiYWRtaW4iXSwiZXhwIjoxNjczMjEwMTkzfQ.xxhmqtG9O3XNTIrOEB2_TWnVkq0JkqzRdw63BdosV0c <subcommand>
```

When the Forest daemon is started, an admin token will be displayed
(alternatively, use `--save-token <token>` flag to save it on disk).

## Wallet

All wallet commands require write permissions to interact with the keystore

Balance Retrieve the FIL balance of a given address Usage:
`forest-cli wallet balance <address>`

Default Get the default, persisted address from the keystore Usage:
`forest-cli wallet default`

Has Check if an address exists in the keystore shows true/false if exists or
doesn't Usage: `forest-cli wallet has <address>`

List Display the keys in the keystore Usage: `forest-cli wallet list`

New Create a new wallet The signature type can either be secp256k1 or bls.
Defaults to use bls Usage: `forest-cli wallet new <bls/secp256k1>`

Set-default Set an address to be the default address of the keystore Usage:
`forest-cli wallet set-default <address>`

Import Import a private key to the keystore and create a new address. The
default format for importing keys is hex encoded JSON. Use the `export` command
to get formatted keys for importing. Usage:
`forest-cli wallet import <hex encoded json key>`

Export Export a key by address. Use a wallet address to export a key. Returns a
formatted key to be used to import on another node, or into a new keystore.
Usage: `forest-cli wallet export <address>`

Sign Use an address to sign a vector of bytes Usage:
`forest-cli wallet sign -m <hex message> -a <address>`

Verify Verify the message's integrity with an address and signature Usage:
`forest-cli wallet verify -m <hex message> -a <address> -s <signature>`

## Chain-Sync

The chain-sync CLI can mark blocks to never be synced, provide information about
the state of the syncing process, and check blocks that will never be synced
(and for what reason).

Wait Wait for the sync process to be complete Usage: `forest-cli sync wait`
Permissions: Read

Status Check the current state of the syncing process, displaying some
information Usage: `forest-cli sync status` Permissions: Read

Check Bad Check if a block has been marked by, identifying the block by CID
Usage: `forest-cli sync check-bad -c <block cid>` Permissions: Read

Mark Bad Mark a block as bad, the syncer will never sync this block Usage:
`forest-cli sync mark-bad -c <block cid>` Permissions: Admin

Commit message:

Wallet testing in Ci and calibnet ci checks to a script (#2376)

documentation/src/cli.md, after:

# CLI

The Forest CLI allows for operations to interact with a Filecoin node and the
blockchain.

## Environment Variables

For nodes not running on a non-default port, or when interacting with a node
remotely, you will need to provide the multiaddress information for the node.
You will need to either set the environment variable `FULLNODE_API_INFO`, or
prepend it to the command, like so:

`FULLNODE_API_INFO="..." forest wallet new -s bls`

On Linux, you can set the environment variable with the following syntax

`export FULLNODE_API_INFO="..."`

Setting your API info this way will limit the value to your current session.
Look online for ways to persist this variable if desired.

The syntax for the `FULLNODE_API_INFO` variable is as follows:

`<admin_token>:/ip4/<ip of host>/tcp/<port>/http`

This will use IPv4, TCP, and HTTP when communicating with the RPC API. The admin
token can be found when starting the Forest daemon. This will be needed to
create tokens with certain permissions such as read, write, sign, or admin.

## Token flag

For nodes running on default port and when you are interacting locally, the
admin token can also be set using `--token` flag:

```
forest-cli --token eyJ0eXAiOiJKV1QiLCJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiJ9.eyJBbGxvdyI6WyJyZWFkIiwid3JpdGUiLCJzaWduIiwiYWRtaW4iXSwiZXhwIjoxNjczMjEwMTkzfQ.xxhmqtG9O3XNTIrOEB2_TWnVkq0JkqzRdw63BdosV0c <subcommand>
```

## Sending Filecoin tokens from your wallet

For sending Filecoin tokens, the Forest daemon must be running. You can do so by
running:

`forest --chain calibnet`

Next, send Filecoin tokens to a wallet address:

`forest-cli --token <admin_token> send <wallet-address> <amount in attoFIL>`

where 1 attoFIL = $10^{−18}$ FIL.

## Wallet

Filecoin wallets are stored under the Forest data directory (e.g.,
`~/.local/share/forest` in the case of Linux) in a `keystore` file.

All wallet commands require write permissions and an admin token (`--token`) to
interact with the keystore. The admin token can be retrieved from forest startup
logs or by running it with `--save-token <PATH>`.

Balance Retrieve the FIL balance of a given address Usage:
`forest-cli wallet balance <address>`

Default Get the default, persisted address from the keystore Usage:
`forest-cli wallet default`

Has Check if an address exists in the keystore shows true/false if exists or
doesn't Usage: `forest-cli wallet has <address>`

List Display the keys in the keystore Usage: `forest-cli wallet list`

New Create a new wallet The signature type can either be secp256k1 or bls.
Defaults to use bls Usage: `forest-cli wallet new <bls/secp256k1>`

Set-default Set an address to be the default address of the keystore Usage:
`forest-cli wallet set-default <address>`

Import Import a private key to the keystore and create a new address. The
default format for importing keys is hex encoded JSON. Use the `export` command
to get formatted keys for importing. Usage:
`forest-cli wallet import <hex encoded json key>`

Export Export a key by address. Use a wallet address to export a key. Returns a
formatted key to be used to import on another node, or into a new keystore.
Usage: forest-cli wallet export <address>

Sign Use an address to sign a vector of bytes Usage:
`forest-cli wallet sign -m <hex message> -a <address>`

Verify Verify the message's integrity with an address and signature Usage:
`forest-cli wallet verify -m <hex message> -a <address> -s <signature>`

## Chain-Sync

The chain-sync CLI can mark blocks to never be synced, provide information about
the state of the syncing process, and check blocks that will never be synced
(and for what reason).

Wait Wait for the sync process to be complete Usage: `forest-cli sync wait`
Permissions: Read

Status Check the current state of the syncing process, displaying some
information Usage: `forest-cli sync status` Permissions: Read

Check Bad Check if a block has been marked by, identifying the block by CID
Usage: `forest-cli sync check-bad -c <block cid>` Permissions: Read

Mark Bad Mark a block as bad, the syncer will never sync this block Usage:
`forest-cli sync mark-bad -c <block cid>` Permissions: Admin
