documentation/developer_documentation/TEST_PLAN.md, before:

# Forest Test Plan

    Version: 1.0
    Author: David Himmelstrup
    Date updated: 2022-11-14

## Test objective:

The Filecoin specification is complex and changes rapidly over time. To manage this complexity, Forest uses a rigorous testing framework, starting with individual functions and ending with complete end-to-end validation. The goals, in descending order of priority, are:

- **Regression detection.** If Forest can no longer connect to mainnet or if any of its features break, the development team should be automatically notified.
- **No institutional/expert knowledge required.** Developers can work on a Forest subsystem without worrying about accidentally breaking a different subsystem.
- **Bug identification.** If something break, the test data should narrow down the location of the issue.


## Scope of testing definition:

Forest testing is multifaceted and layered. The testing pipeline looks like this:

- **Unit tests for library functions.** Example: parsing a network version fails for garbled input.
- **Unit tests for CLI programs.** Example: `forest-cli dump` produces a valid configuration.
- **Property tests.** Example: `deserialize ∘ serialize = id` for all custom formats.
- **Network synchronization.** PRs are checked against the calibration network, the main branch is checked against the main network.
- **End-to-end feature tests.** Example: Network snapshots are generated daily and hosted publicly.
- **Link checking.** API documentation and markdown files are checked for dead links.
- **Spell checking.** API documentation is checked for spelling errors and typos.

All testing is automated and there are no additional manual checks required for releases.

## Resources / Roles & Responsibilities:

Testing is a team effort and everyone is expected to add unit tests, property tests, or integration tests as part of their PR contributions.

## Tools description:

- Bug tracker: https://github.com/ChainSafe/forest/issues
- Test Automation tools: [nextest](https://nexte.st/), [quickcheck](https://docs.rs/quickcheck/latest/quickcheck/)
- Languages: [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/)
- CI/CD: [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/ChainSafe/forest/actions)
- Version control: [Git](https://git-scm.com/)

## Deliverables:

The only deliverable is a green checkmark. Either all tests pass and a PR may be merged into the main branch or something is not up to spec and the PR is blocked.

## Test Environment & CI

Short-running tests are executed via GitHub Actions on Linux and MacOS. Long-running tests are run on dedicated testing servers.

The services on the dedicated servers are described here: https://github.com/ChainSafe/forest-iac

## Test Data:

No private or confidential data is involved in testing. Everything is public.

## Bug template:

Bug report template is available on GitHub: https://github.com/ChainSafe/forest/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md

The template is applied automatically when bugs are reported through GitHub.

## Risk & Issues:

- We depend on the calibration network for testing. If this network is down, our testing capabilities are degraded.
- We depend on GitHub Actions for testing. If GitHub Action is unavailable, testing will be degraded.
- Testing against mainnet is effective for discovering issues, but not great for identifying root causes. Finding bugs *before* syncing to mainnet is always to be preferred.

Commit message:

chore: describe the long-running tests in more detail (#2209)

documentation/developer_documentation/TEST_PLAN.md, after:

# Forest Test Plan

    Version: 1.0
    Author: David Himmelstrup
    Date updated: 2022-11-14

## Test objective:

The Filecoin specification is complex and changes rapidly over time. To manage this complexity, Forest uses a rigorous testing framework, starting with individual functions and ending with complete end-to-end validation. The goals, in descending order of priority, are:

- **Regression detection.** If Forest can no longer connect to mainnet or if any of its features break, the development team should be automatically notified.
- **No institutional/expert knowledge required.** Developers can work on a Forest subsystem without worrying about accidentally breaking a different subsystem.
- **Bug identification.** If something break, the test data should narrow down the location of the issue.


## Scope of testing definition:

Forest testing is multifaceted and layered. The testing pipeline looks like this:

- **Unit tests for library functions.** Example: parsing a network version fails for garbled input.
- **Unit tests for CLI programs.** Example: `forest-cli dump` produces a valid configuration.
- **Property tests.** Example: `deserialize ∘ serialize = id` for all custom formats.
- **Network synchronization.** PRs are checked against the calibration network, the main branch is checked against the main network.
- **End-to-end feature tests.** Example: Network snapshots are generated daily and hosted publicly.
- **Link checking.** API documentation and markdown files are checked for dead links.
- **Spell checking.** API documentation is checked for spelling errors and typos.

All testing is automated and there are no additional manual checks required for releases.

## Resources / Roles & Responsibilities:

Testing is a team effort and everyone is expected to add unit tests, property tests, or integration tests as part of their PR contributions.

## Tools description:

- Bug tracker: https://github.com/ChainSafe/forest/issues
- Test Automation tools: [nextest](https://nexte.st/), [quickcheck](https://docs.rs/quickcheck/latest/quickcheck/)
- Languages: [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/)
- CI/CD: [GitHub Actions](https://github.com/ChainSafe/forest/actions)
- Version control: [Git](https://git-scm.com/)

## Deliverables:

The only deliverable is a green checkmark. Either all tests pass and a PR may be merged into the main branch or something is not up to spec and the PR is blocked.

## Test Environment & CI

Short-running tests are executed via GitHub Actions on Linux and MacOS. Long-running tests are run on dedicated testing servers.

The services on the dedicated servers are described here: https://github.com/ChainSafe/forest-iac

In short, the long-running tests are executed in dockerized environments with
some running one per day and some running on every commit to the main Forest
branch. At the moment, the tests are run on DigitalOcean but they can be run
from anywhere. Feedback is reported to ChainSafe's Slack server and artifacts
are uploaded to DigitalOcean Spaces.

## Test Data:

No private or confidential data is involved in testing. Everything is public.

## Bug template:

Bug report template is available on GitHub: https://github.com/ChainSafe/forest/blob/main/.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md

The template is applied automatically when bugs are reported through GitHub.

## Risk & Issues:

- We depend on the calibration network for testing. If this network is down, our testing capabilities are degraded.
- We depend on GitHub Actions for testing. If GitHub Action is unavailable, testing will be degraded.
- Testing against mainnet is effective for discovering issues, but not great for identifying root causes. Finding bugs *before* syncing to mainnet is always to be preferred.
